Argument outline:

The story of Kimani Maruge and how he captured a sentiment that I found palpable in Kenya: We want to learn.


2015 is supposed to be the year that global access to primary school was achieved. The UN has noted that this goal remains "unfinished"

Technology should not be used as a justification to reduce work towards education access. It is a tool for students and teachers.



can provide fundamental services an order of magnitude more efficiently than traditional implementations.

This year, 2015 is the final year of the millenium development goals, 


How does the 2-sigma problem extend into schools with few or now teachers?

I dislike thinking of the problem as a sub-saharan african problem. It isn't. Equal access to education. 



Notes:
UN Development goal: 
Ensure equitable quality education and lifelong learning for all by 2030

Ensure that, by 2015, children everywhere, boys and girls alike, will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling

Principles:
Education is a fundamental human right and contributes significantly to the realization of other
rights.

Education is a public good. The state is the custodian of education as a public good. At the same
time, the role of civil society, communities, parents and other stakeholders is crucial in the
provision of quality education.

Education is a foundation for human fulfilment, peace, sustainable development, economic
growth, decent work, gender equality and responsible global citizenship.

Education is a key contributor to the reduction of inequalities and poverty by bequeathing the
conditions and generating the opportunities for better, sustainable societies. 

Imperitives:
Opportunities to acquire knowledge and skills for sustainable development, global citizenship
and the world of work must be enhanced.

Lifelong learning is a central principle of the post-2015 education agenda. Flexible lifelong and
life-wide learning opportunities should be provided through formal, non-formal and informal
pathways, including by harnessing the potential of ICTs to create a new culture of learning.

The use of technology for online and distance learning
will become a critical component in the provision of quality education. National policies and tertiary
education systems should seek to establish appropriate quality assurance systems. 


In sub-Saharan Africa, for example, the proportion of children enrolled in primary school has risen from 52% in 1990 to 80% this year. of the world’s 650 million primary school children, at least 250 million lack even basic literacy and numeracy skills.

On need for tertiary education:
Rationale: Progress in the provision of basic education and the growing need for relevant skills and
lifelong learning opportunities have substantially increased demand for access to different streams and
forms of post-basic and tertiary education. Ensuring equitable access to relevant and diversified post-basic
and tertiary education is a challenge that all countries must meet. This challenge is particularly acute in
the least developed countries, where insufficient opportunities to access higher levels of learning have
resulted in a knowledge gap with serious consequences for social and economic development. An increase
in access to and attainment of higher levels of education is key to ensuring more equitable access to better
living conditions, increasingly specialized and better-paid jobs, and a more sustainable environment as well
as sustainable economic and social development. The use of technology for online and distance learning
will become a critical component in the provision of quality education. National policies and tertiary
education systems should seek to establish appropriate quality assurance systems. The use of technology for online and distance learning
will become a critical component in the provision of quality education. National policies and tertiary
education systems should seek to establish appropriate quality assurance systems. 